ADDON_SUMMARY - user manual
Author: ADDON_AUTHOR_NAME


%!includeconf: ../addon_userManual.t2tconf
%!includeconf: addon_informations.t2tconf
%!includeconf: addon_keys.t2tconf

URL: [ADDON_REPOSITORY ADDON_REPOSITORY]


Download:
- [stable version ADDON_CUR_VERSION ADDON_DOWNLOAD_SERVER1]
- [developpement's version ADDON_DEV_URL]


Compatibility:
- minimum supported NVDA version : MINIMUM_NVDA_VERSION
- last tested NVDA version: LAST_TESTED_NVDA_VERSION


= Summary =[toc]
%%toc



+ Introduction +
Sorry, This manual is based on a french user manual's automatic translation .


++ Features ++
This add-on provides the folowing scripts:

- [Report the position of the cursor audio #HDR1],
- [Report the selection information #HDR2],
- [Report pressed state of the buttons "Play" and "Pause" #HDR3],
- [Report the level of playback or recording meter peak#hdr4],
- [Report the level of playback or record sliders #hdr5],
- [announce playback speed #hdr6],
- [Display the guide of audacity #hdr7],


As well as accessibility improvements:
- [Automatic announcement of the audio position #HDR100],
- [Automatic Announcement of the selection #HDR101],
- [Use the space bar or the Enter key to press a button #HDR102],
- [Vocalization of the edit spin boxes of Audacity time #HDR103],
- [various other adaptations #hdr104].

++ update ++
The update of the extension is, by default, automatically a short time after the start of NVDA (between 20 and 600 seconds) and a maximum of once per day.
It is possible to disable this update by unchecking the option "automatically check for updates" of "Update" category in the extension settings.
The version of the extension can be:
- a stable version: its version number is "1.0" for example.
- either a development version: the version number is of the type "1.0-dev1", or "1.0-rc1", or "1.0-beta2".


By default, the stable version is updated with a stable version more recent (higher version number).
But it is possible to update the stable version running with a development version of the next stable version. Just check the option "Update also update the stable release to the versions of development" located in the "Update" category of extension settings.

A development version is updated:
- with a more recent development version,
- with its stable version,
- or with the latest stable version if the previous option is not checked.


The button "Search for update" placed in the extension settings, menu item "Update", allows you to search immediately for an update.

The "View history" button, placed in this same category, allows you to display the history of the current version in the browser.

In the case of an automatic update and if a new version is detected, the "Update" dialog box is displayed to suggest:
- either the immediate installation of the new version,
- or to postpone the update until later. In this case, the search will be restarted at least one hour later.


In the case of an automatic update and if a new version is detected, the "Update" dialog box is displayed to suggest:

++ Compatibility ++
This add-on has been tested with Audacity version 3.4, 3.3.0 and 3.3.3. It is not compatible with versions prior to version 3.3.0.


++ Necessary configuration ++
For proper operation of the module, it is necessary to :
- preserve the default display set up during the installation of audacity, and especially the toolbars. Audacity allows you to reset the display with the sub-menu "Reset" sub-menu "toolbars" from the "View"menu. But it is necessary to restart Audacity after you have used it.
- Keep the display format of the set time by default, or choose from one of the formats listed in chapter [Text edit boxes of the time in the box with the Selection tool Audacity #HDR103]



other configuration recommendations:
- add the menu "Exra" on menus bar,
- disable the creation of labels by simple keystroke,
- enable the option to display of the dialog box "Create label",
-install the complete set of shortcuts,
- disable the auto select option.


++ Activation scripts ++
Each script can be activated in two ways:
- either using a classic input gesture,
- either by using the shell of the module.


In the NVDA "Input gestures" dialog, the scripts provided by the module are placed in the category named "Audacity multi-track editor: accessibility enhancement".

For scripts that can be launched by a command interpreter, the command is indicated following the description of the script.


By default, the vast majority of scripts that can be run by the shell are not assigned to any input gesture .


The command interpreter is launched using the gesture command "KEY_SHELL" . A beep sound is audible.


Today, the commands are not modifiable.

The command "SHELL_KEY_HELP" of the interpreter lists all of the commands and the command "SHELL_KEY_DISPLAY_USER_MANUAL" displays the user manual of the module.

The shell stops is:
- by typing the key "Esc",
- either automatically if a command is typed. If this commend does not correspond to any feature, a beep signals it.


+ Module's Configuration +
The module installs in the NVDA's "Preferences" menu, the "Audacity multi-track editor: accessibility enhancement add-on - settings ..." sub-menu.

It allows you to display the configuration dialog settings of the module, namely:
- the check box "Report automatically the selection changes",
- the check box "use the space bar or the Enter key to press a button",
- the check box "Report toolbars's name".


This configuration is saved in the file "audacityAccessEnhancementAddon.ini" in the NVDA's user configuration folder.

+ Scripts +
++ Report audio position ++[hdr1]
To use this script, it is necessary that the focus is in the tracks view.

This script is triggered by the command "SHELL_KEY_AUDIO_POSITION" of the interpreter.

No gesture of command assigned by default.

It announces the time indicated in the "audio position" edit spin box of the "Time" toolbar.

++ Report informations's selection ++[hdr2]
To use this script, it is necessary that the focus is in the tracks view.

The selection toolbar presents two edit spin boxes which give according to the choice made using the "Selection Toolbar Setup" button:
- the limits of the selection (beginning and end),
- the start and duration of the selection,
- the duration and end of the selection,
- the duration and the center of the selection.


With the following scripts, it is possible to announce the time indicated by these two boxes without having to move the focus in the "Selection" toolbar:
- "Announce the selection": command "SHELL_KEY_SELECTION_LIMITS_REPORT" of the interpreter,
- "announce the first time of the selection": command "SHELL_KEY_SELECTION_DURATION_REPORT" of the interpreter,
- "announce the second time of the selection": "SHELL_KEY_SELECTION_CENTER_REPORT" of the interpreter,
- "announce the selection. Press twice: announce its first time. Press three times: announce its second time": without an interpreter command.




By default, No input gesture is affected.


++ Report pressed state of the "Pause", "play" or" record" buttons ++[hdr3]
To use this script, it is necessary that the focus is in the tracks view.

It is triggered by the command "SHELL_KEY_BUTTONS_STATE" of the interpreter.

By default, no input gesture is assigned.

It announces the state "Pressed"of the "Play", "Pause" and "Record" buttons.

In the case where no button is pressed, the announcement "No button pressed" is vocalized.


++ Report the level of playback or recording meter peak ++[hdr4]
Audacity présente meters for playback and recording to monitor the peaks of playback or recording with dropdown button.

The following scripts make it possible to know the levels of these vu-meters, without moving the focus to the view of the tracks:
- report the level of the play meter peak: "command SHELL_KEY_PLAYMETERPEAK_REPORT" of the interpreter,
- report the level of the record meter peak: command "SHELL_KEY_RECORDMETERPEAK_REPORT"of the interpreter.


By default, no input gesture is assigned.

++ Report the level of the playback and record'sslider ++[hdr5]
The toolbar "Audacity mixer Toolbar" presents the playback and record's sliders allowing you to adjust the levels of playback or recording.

The following scripts make it possible to know the levels of these sliders without moving the focus to the view of the tracks:
- report the level of the playback cursor: command "SHELL_KEY_SLIDERPLAYBACK_REPORT" of the interpreter,
- report the level of the recording cursor: command "SHELL_KEY_SLIDERRECORDING_REPORT" of the interpreter.

By default, no input gesture command is assigned.



++ Report the playback speed ++[hdr6]

It is launched by the "SHELL_KEY_PLAYBACK_SPEED_REPORT" command of the interpreter.

By default, it has no control gesture assigned to it.

This script announces the level of the "Playback speed" slider of the "Play-at-Speed" Speed" group.

++ Display Audacity's guide ++[hdr7]
This script is triggered by the command "SHELL_KEY_DISPLAY_GUIDE" of the interpreter.

By default, no input gesture is assigned.

It allows you to view the guide of Audacity written by David Bailes for the users of the Jaws (c) screen reader and Audacity v2.2.

+ Accessibility improvements +
++ Automatic announcement of the audio position ++[hdr100]
In audio playback or not, the following shortcuts from Audacity (set by default) allow you to set or move the cursor audio:
- "Shift + a" or "x": play / stop and positioning of the cursor audio
- "left arrow": small jump to the left,
- "right arrow": small jump to the right,
- "the beginning": jump to the beginning,
- "end": jump to the end,
- ",": small jump to the left,
- ".": small jump to the right,
- "Shift + ,": big jump to the left,
- "Shift + .": big jump to the right,
- "space": play /stop


In stopped audio playback and after activating the shortcut, the information in the "audio position" edit spin box of the "Time" toolbar is automatically announced if a change has taken place and in the form:
- announcement of the label of the edit spin box of the audio position (displayed by Audacity),
- announcement of the formatted time indicated by this box.


The return of the audio position in the beginning of the selection is reported.

These shortcuts can be modified by the user without impacting the operation.


++ Automatic Announcement of the selection ++[hdr101]
The following shortcuts from Audacity (set by default) allow you to set or move the start and end of the selection:
- "Shift + home": selection to the start,
- "Shift + end": selection to the end,
- "Shift + j": selection of the start of the track up to the slider,
- "Shift-k": selection from the cursor to the end of the track,
- Shift + right arrow": to extend the selection to the right,
- "Shift + left arrow": to extend the selection to the left,
- "Control + Shift + right arrow": to contract the selection to the left,
- "Control + Shift + left arrow": to contract the selection to the right.



If the option "Automatically announce selection changes" in the "Options" category of the extension settings is checked, In stopped playback and after activating one of the previous shortcuts, selection changes are announced
Depending on the type of shortcut, one or/and the other of the numeric selection boxes of the "Selection" toolbar are announced in the form:
- announcement of the label of the numerical selection box displayed by Audacity,
- announcement of the formatted time indicated by this box.


As all the labels advertised are those that are displayed by Audacity, there may be inconsistencies due to the translation or at the coding .

These shortcuts can be modified by the user without impacting the operation.

The command "SHELL_KEY_TOGGLE_AUTOMATIC_SELECTION_REPORT" shell module allows you to enable or disable the announcement of the selection changes when it becomes annoying.
It toggles the state of the option "Report automatically the selection changes" to the state "checked" to "unchecked" or vice versa.

++ Use the space bar or the Enter key to press a button ++[HDR102]
In Audacity, the bar space is provided to start or stop the audio playback, but not for pressing a button .

To press the button, it is necessary to use the "Enter" key, but this moves the focus to the next item in the window and no status change of the button is vocalized.

If the option "Use space bar or Enter key to press a button" located in "Options" category of extension settings is checked, it is then possible to press a button with the space bar or the Enter key and the state changes are announced.


++ Vocalization of the Audacity time's edit spin boxes ++[HDR103]
This feature is not available in Audacity versions 3.3.x.

Audacity shows some edit spin boxes for editing time like, for exemple: audio position, selection start, selection end, selection center, selection length .

These selection boxes present the information according to the format defined by the user using the contextual menu of the box.

The information is a sequence of numbers. Each digit belongs to a group of digits such as hours, minutes, seconds, etc.

To change this time, it is necessary to be placed on the digit to modify (for right or left arrow) and the increase or the decrease with the arrows high or low.

By default, this extension allows better vocalization by indicating a time in hours, minutes and seconds, indicating the nature of the digit that is selected and the value of the group of the digit modified for the digital selection boxes cited as an example above.


This feature can be desactivated by unchecking the "Edit spin box enhanced announcement" check box located in "Options" category of extension settings.

But only the following format are taken into account:

- seconds,
- HH:MM:SS,
- dd:hh:mm:ss,
- HH:MM:SS,hundredth,
- HH:MM:SS,mil,
- hh:mm:ss + samples,
- samples.


The "NVDA + upArrow" key command allows you to vocalize the full-time.

The same mechanisms are put in place in other edit spin boxes which are areas of editing time in the same style as the "timer Record" dialog.

++ Other adapttations ++[hdr104]
- The tracks are not announced as rows and the tracks view as a table.
- The state "not selected" to a track is no longer vocalized.
- the absence of a track when the focus arrives in the view of the track is announced.
- The name of the toolbar panels is announced when moving the focus by "control+f6" or "shift+control+f6" (see the ["Audacity guide" audacityGuide.html]). This can be disabled by configuring the "Announce toolbar panel names" option. The panel that contains the Track View is named "Main Panel".


+ History +
The version history of this add-on is in the file: ["changes.html" changes.html]
