ADDON_SUMMARY - History
Auteur: ADDON_AUTHOR_NAME


%!includeconf: ../addon_global.t2tconf
%!includeconf: addon_informations.t2tconf

URL: ADDON_AUTHOR_URL

[GitHub repository: ADDON_REPOSITORY ADDON_REPOSITORY]

Download:
- [Current stable version: ADDON_CUR_VERSION ADDON_DOWNLOAD_SERVER1]
- [Previous stable Version: ADDON_PREV_VERSION ADDON_DOWNLOAD_PREVIOUS]
- [Development's versions ADDON_DEV_URL]


Sorry, but this document is an automatic translation from french language.

+ v2.9 (August/03/2023) +
- the audio position is no longer announced after restarting playback. This happened with Audacity versions 3.2.2 and above. In these versions, the state of the "play" and "pause" buttons is no longer available with MSAA), unlike previous versions.


+ v2.8 (February/14/2023) +
- compatibility with audacity 3.2.3
- compatibility with NVDA 2023.1
- discontinuation of versions prior to audacity 3.0.


Changes:
- updating the Audacity guide for versions  3.2.3 ( [see guide written by David Bell https://vip.chowo.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/jaws/Audacity-3.2.3-Guide.html] )


+ v2.7 (May/26/2022) +
Bug fixes:
- replacement of curLang by getLanguage
- error when launching a script in the dialog that lists the command interpreter scripts.


Changes:
- updating the Audacity guide for versions 3.1.0 to 3.1.3 ( [see guide written by David Bell https://vip.chowo.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/jaws/Audacity-3.1.0- Guide.html] )


+ v2.6 (02/04/2022) +
- Compatibility with NVDA 2022.1
- reset the configuration in the event of errors in the configuration file.


Changes:
- during an automatic update of the add-on, it no longer asks the user if he wants to keep the current configuration parameters of the add-on.
- during a manual installation of the add-on, a confirmation request is requested when the user has chosen not to keep the current settings of the add-on configuration.


+ v2.5 (12/01/2021) +
- Compatibility with NVDA 2021.3
- removed the warning message indicating that the extension has not been tested with the version of Audacity used.


+ v2.4.1 (06/25/2021) +
Adding turkish translation

+ v2.4 (06/18/2021) +
- Compatibility with NVDA 2021.1. Versions of NVDA prior to 2019.3 are not supported.
- removal of the code concerning Python 2.7.
- compatibility with audacity 3.0.2.


+ v2.3 (08/04/2021) +
Compatibility with Audacity 3.0


+ v2.2 (18/12/2020) +
- compatibility with NVDA 2020.4
- addition of the "View history" button in the "Update" category of the add-on's parameters.


+ v2.1 (27/10/2020) +
- compatibility with NVDA 2020.3
- code cleaning (corrections of errors detected by Flake8)
- addition of the "What's new" button in the dialog proposing the installation of a new update.


+ Version 2.0 (01/08/2020) +
Compatibility with audacity 2.4.2 and 2.4.1.
- compatibility with NVDA 2020.2
- adding option to desactivate enhanced announcement of edit spin boxes.
- parameters dialog with category.
- code modified for searching object based on controlID


+ Version 1.4.5 (19/05/2020) +
Bugs's correction:
- bad support of audacity 2.3.2 version.



+ Version 1.4.4 (11/05/2020) +
Adding turkish translation

+ Version 1.4.3 (08/05/2020) +
Bug corrections:
- bad detection of Transport tools bar.
- error when timer in Speed change dialog gains focus.


+ Version 1.4.2.1 (06/04/2020) +
Adding arabic translation
+ Version 1.4.1 (03/04/2020) +
updating of history of add-on's changes.


+ Version 1.4 (03/04/2020) +
- compatibility with NVDA 2020.1,
- compliance for NVDA extension compatibility test


+ v1.3 (01/10/2019) +
-Compatibility with NVDA 2019.3.
- adding automatic update check.
- correction of the documentation.
- translation of the addon in Spanish by Rémy Ruiz, changes by Gunther Melendez.


+ v1.2 (01/06/2019) +
- Modification of manifest.ini file for compatibility with NVDA 2019.2.0.


+ v1.1 (16/03/2019) +
- Modification of manifest.ini file for compatibility with NVDA 2019.1.0.
- code changes for compatibility with python 3.


+ v1.0.2 (28/12/2018) +
Correction of bad announcement of selection.


+ v1.0.1 (22/12/2018) +
Small documentation correction.


+ v1.0 (20/12/2018) +
- version number restarted to 1.0 cause of name change,
- compatibility with Audacity 2.3.0,
- the scripts of "shell scripts display" dialog are listed with possibility to run selected script,
- improvement of the accessibility of the edit boxes of the time in the "timer Recording" dialog,
- major overhaul of the code.


+ v3.2 (19/06/2018) +
- compatibility with NVDA 2018.2,
- settings management on installation or uninstallation (adding install.py file),
- clean-up and repackaging of code.


+ v3.1 (07/01/2018) +
- addon modified to be in the addon template form and stored in git hub repository.


+ v3.0.1 (04/01/2018) +
- settings addon menu bug fix,
- adding future directive for python 3 compatibility.


+ v3.0 (11/2017) +
- compatibility with Audacity 2.2.0,
new - scripts to announce the peak meters and sliders for playback or recording,
- new scripts to announce the duration and the position of the center of the selection,
- restriction of the use of certain scripts to the tracks view conformémant to the documentation,
- implementation of the command interpreter,
- implementation of an interceptor of keyboard keys as a replacement to the watchdog,
- implementation of a configuration file,
- structuring the module to the repository on github.
- update the user manual.


+ v2.3 (08/2017) +
- script "alt+control+f4" to activate or deactivate the announcement of the selection changes,
- compatibility with audacity v2.1.3,
- resumption of the code.


+ v2.2 (06/2015) +
- restructuring of the code


+ v2.1 (10/2014) +
- compatibility with NVDA 2014.3
- compatibility with Audacity v2.06


+ v2.0 (05/2014) +
- establishment of a supervisory field position and selection to announce the changes.


+ v1.0 (01/2014) +
Creation of the add-on
